**Data Description**

We will first be analyzing data for all natural disasters on a global scale from the `global_data.csv`. This dataset contains information for 9 types of disasters stored in the variable `Entity`. More specifically, we will be comparing impacts caused by drought, earthquake, extreme temperature, extreme weather, flood, landslide, mass movement, volcanic activity, and wildfire. Time of the records are stored in the variable `Year` and maximum year range for all disasters is from 1900 to 2018. Each disaster in each year has 2 associated variables that describe statistics of the events: number of deaths (`Deaths`) and count of the disaster (`Counts`). Using this data we will also derive a new variable, named `death_per_event`, which is the number of death per occurrence of an event. We will be using another wrangled dataset named `earthquake_data.csv` containing specifically earthquake information from 1990 to 2017. This dataset is on a country level compared to the other global disaster dataset. Columns `Country` and `Code` contains the country names and codes which will be used for choropleth mapping on a world map. Annual number of people died from an earthquake and total number of people died in each country are stored in columns `Death_earthquake` and `Death_total` respectively. We will be using death rate in our analysis so another new variable `Death_rate` will be derived from these two columns. Most of the data come from the website [ourworldindata.org](https://ourworldindata.org/) and annual total number of death for each country is from [Global Health Data Exchange](http://ghdx.healthdata.org/).